README.md, before:

# sans #

[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/XiaoxiaoPu/sans.svg)](https://github.com/XiaoxiaoPu/sans/releases/latest)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPL%203-blue.svg)](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html)
[![Build Status](https://ci.xiaoxiao.im/buildStatus/icon?job=sans)](https://ci.xiaoxiao.im/job/sans)

**S**imple **A**nti-spoofing **N**ame **S**erver, designed to defend against DNS spoofing, suitable for embedded devices and low end boxes.


## Features ##

1. Support both UDP and TCP
2. Detect if a domain is polluted
3. Query polluted domains over TCP or SOCKS5


## Build ##


### 1. Linux ###

install GNU autotools according to your distribution, then:

```bash
autoreconf -if
./configure --prefix=/usr --sysconfdir=/etc
make
sudo make install
```


### 2. OS X ###

install [homebrew](http://brew.sh) first, then:

```bash
brew install --HEAD https://github.com/XiaoxiaoPu/sans/raw/master/contrib/homebrew/sans.rb
```

### 3. Cross compile ###

setup cross compile tool chain:

```bash
export PATH="$PATH:/pato/to/cross/compile/toolchain/"
```

build:

```bash
autoreconf -if
./configure --host=arm-unknown-linux-gnueabihf \
    --prefix=/usr --sysconfdir=/etc
make
```


### 4. Build with MinGW ###

```bash
autoreconf -if
./configure --host=i686-w64-mingw32
make
```


## Configuration ##

key         | description
:----------:|:----------
user        | User to set privilege to, default: nobody
listen      | Listern address and port, default: 127.0.0.1:53
socks5      | SOCKS5 server
test_server | DNS server for testing if a domain is polluted, default: 8.8.8.8:53
cn_server   | DNS server for unpolluted domains, default: 114.114.114.114:53
server      | DNS server for polluted domains, default: 8.8.8.8:53

**sample config file:**

```ini
user=nobody
group=nobody
listen=127.0.0.1:5300
socks5=127.0.0.1:1080
test_server=8.8.8.8:53
cn_server=114.114.114.114:53
server=8.8.8.8:53
```

## Note ##

1. If SOCKS5 server is not given, polluted domains will be queried over TCP. It's faster than querying over SOCKS5, but may not work in some networks.

2. Since there is no cache in sans, you may need to set it as an upstream DNS server for Dnsmasq instead of using it directly.


## TODO ##

*   cache
*   retry on error
*   auto pre-query
*   recursive


## License ##

Copyright (C) 2014 - 2015, Xiaoxiao <i@xiaoxiao.im>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Commit message:

Add -u parameter to use NONSTANDARD UDP port DNS server
Can run sans with -u parameter, polluted domains will be queried over
UDP. It's faster than TCP.

README.md, after:

# sans #

[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/XiaoxiaoPu/sans.svg)](https://github.com/XiaoxiaoPu/sans/releases/latest)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPL%203-blue.svg)](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html)
[![Build Status](https://ci.xiaoxiao.im/buildStatus/icon?job=sans)](https://ci.xiaoxiao.im/job/sans)

**S**imple **A**nti-spoofing **N**ame **S**erver, designed to defend against DNS spoofing, suitable for embedded devices and low end boxes.


## Features ##

1. Support both UDP and TCP
2. Detect if a domain is polluted
3. Query polluted domains over TCP or SOCKS5 or NONSTANDARD UDP port DNS server 


## Build ##


### 1. Linux ###

install GNU autotools according to your distribution, then:

```bash
autoreconf -if
./configure --prefix=/usr --sysconfdir=/etc
make
sudo make install
```


### 2. OS X ###

install [homebrew](http://brew.sh) first, then:

```bash
brew install --HEAD https://github.com/XiaoxiaoPu/sans/raw/master/contrib/homebrew/sans.rb
```

### 3. Cross compile ###

setup cross compile tool chain:

```bash
export PATH="$PATH:/pato/to/cross/compile/toolchain/"
```

build:

```bash
autoreconf -if
./configure --host=arm-unknown-linux-gnueabihf \
    --prefix=/usr --sysconfdir=/etc
make
```


### 4. Build with MinGW ###

```bash
autoreconf -if
./configure --host=i686-w64-mingw32
make
```


## Configuration ##

key         | description
:----------:|:----------
user        | User to set privilege to, default: nobody
listen      | Listern address and port, default: 127.0.0.1:53
socks5      | SOCKS5 server
test_server | DNS server for testing if a domain is polluted, default: 8.8.8.8:53
cn_server   | DNS server for unpolluted domains, default: 114.114.114.114:53
server      | DNS server for polluted domains, default: 8.8.8.8:53

**sample config file:**
1. use SOCKS5 proxy
```ini
user=nobody
group=nobody
listen=127.0.0.1:5300
socks5=127.0.0.1:1080
test_server=8.8.8.8:53
cn_server=114.114.114.114:53
server=8.8.8.8:53
```
2. use TCP
```ini
user=nobody
group=nobody
listen=127.0.0.1:5300
test_server=8.8.8.8:53
cn_server=114.114.114.114:53
server=8.8.8.8:53
```
3. use UDP and a NONSTANDARD port DNS server
```ini
user=nobody
group=nobody
listen=127.0.0.1:5300
test_server=8.8.8.8:53
cn_server=114.114.114.114:53
server=208.67.222.222:5353
```

## Note ##

1. If SOCKS5 server is not given, polluted domains will be queried over TCP. It's faster than querying over SOCKS5, but may not work in some networks. if run sans with -u parameter, polluted domains will be queried over UDP. It's faster than TCP but your must make sure you set a NONSTANDARD port DNS server, like 5353, 1053 etc, must not be 53.

2. Since there is no cache in sans, you may need to set it as an upstream DNS server for Dnsmasq instead of using it directly.


## TODO ##

*   cache
*   retry on error
*   auto pre-query
*   recursive


## License ##

Copyright (C) 2014 - 2015, Xiaoxiao <i@xiaoxiao.im>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
